---
layout: post
title: FEX 2509 Tagged
author: FEX-Emu Maintainers
---

## Updates to downstream FEX packages

We have news for users of the FEX packages included in certain Linux distributions:

Apple Silicon users running **Fedora Asahi Remix** (and others that use `muvm`) may have seen
an issue where FEX failed to start after customizing its configuration. The issue was that
our graphical FEXConfig tool overrode muvm's internal RootFS setup, so
[we fixed the problem](https://github.com/FEX-Emu/FEX/pull/4802) by no longer touching
settings managed by the microVM. With the new FEX release, you can use FEXConfig like on any other
distribution: To configure logging, to change TSO configuration, to enable library forwarding,
and more.

Speaking of library forwarding: This feature provides significant speed-ups by omitting
costly emulation and instead directly calling into native ARM64 libraries. Unfortunately
only few distributions have so far been able to provide this feature in their FEX packages:
Our Ubuntu PPA includes it out of the box, and Fedora users can install fex-emu-thunks from
the official repositories. Joining these ranks this month is **NixOS** thanks to our
[nixpkgs pull request](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/413255) being merged.
This support is somewhat preliminary since there are open questions around the unique approach
to dynamic linking taken in Nix/NixOS, but nixpkgs community members are already looking into
this problem. Hopefully it won't be long until enjoyers of reproducible builds will have the
same fluent experience as Fedora and Ubuntu users!
